sql-infra: add resource control feature (#12353)
pingcap/docs: tidb-resource-control.md

The introduction of the resource control feature is a milestone for TiDB. It can divide a distributed database cluster into multiple logical units. Even if an individual unit overuses resources, it does not crowd out the resources needed by other units. 

This feature applies to the following scenarios:

- You can combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into one TiDB cluster. If the load of an individual application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other businesses. When the system load is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, so as to achieve the maximum utilization of resources.

> - You can choose to combine all test environments into a single cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications receive the necessary resources.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can choose to combine all test environments into a single cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications can still get the necessary resources.
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This feature does not support [Serverless Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta).

</CustomContent>

## Parameters for resource control

The resource control feature introduces two new global variables.

* TiDB: you can use the system variable [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control) to control whether to enable flow control for a resource group. 
* TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas. 

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it. You need to restart the TiKV instance for the modification to take effect.

</CustomContent>

> The results of the combination of these two parameters are shown in the following table.

Author: ```suggestion
The results of the combinations of these two parameters are shown in the following table.
```

| `resource_control.enabled`  | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= ON   | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= OFF  |
|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| `resource_control.enabled`= true  |  Flow control and scheduling (recommended) | Invalid combination      |  
| `resource_control.enabled`= false |  Only flow control                         | The feature is disabled. |

## How to use resource control

For an existing resource group, you can modify the read and write quota of the resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md). The quota changes to the resource group take effect immediately.

> You can delete a resource group by using [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md). The user bound by the deleted resource group will use the `default` resource group for resource isolation.

Author: ```suggestion
You can delete a resource group by using [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md). The user bound to the deleted resource group will use the `default` resource group for resource isolation.
```

> **Note:**
> 

> > - When you bind a user resource group with `CREATE USER` or `ALTER USER`, it will not take effect for the user's existing sessions, but only for the user's new sessions.

Author: ```suggestion
> - When you bind a user to a resource group by using `CREATE USER` or `ALTER USER`, it will not take effect for the user's existing sessions, but only for the user's new sessions.
```

> > - The `default` resource group does not have quota restrictions for bound user applications. It is recommended to create the `default` resource group by using [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), or modify the quota for the `default` resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) to control the quota for the `default` resource group.

Author: ```suggestion
> - The `default` resource group does not have quota restrictions for user applications. It is recommended to create the `default` resource group by using [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), or modify the quota for the `default` resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) to control the quota for the `default` resource group.
```

### Prerequisites

To create, modify, or delete a resource group, you need to have the `SUPER` or `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` privilege.

> You can create a resource group in the cluster with [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), and then bind the users to a specific resource group by using [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/ sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md).

Author: ```suggestion
You can create a resource group in the cluster by using [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), and then bind the users to a specific resource group by using [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/ sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md).
```

### Step 1. Enable the resource control feature

Enable flow control for the resource group.

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_resource_control = 'ON';
```

> In TiKV, set the parameter `resource_control.enabled` to `true`. The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.

Author: ```suggestion

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

In TiKV, set the parameter `resource_control.enabled` to `true`. The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.

</CustomContent> 
```

> ### Step 2. Create a resource group, and bind users to it

Author: ```suggestion
### Step 2. Create a resource group, and then bind users to it
```

Resource group quotas are expressed as [RU (Resource Unit)](/tidb-RU.md), which is TiDB's unified abstraction of CPU, IO, and other system resources.

The following is an example of how to create a resource group and bind users to it.

1. Create a resource group `rg1` with a quota of 500 RU per second for read requests and 300 RU per second for write requests, and allow applications in this resource group to use excessive resources when system resources are available.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1
    RRU_PER_SEC = 500
    WRU_PER_SEC = 300
    BURSTABLE
    ;
    ```

2. Create a resource group `rg2` with a quota of 600 RU per second for read requests and 400 RU per second for write requests, and do not allow applications in this resource group to use excessive resources even when system resources are available.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2
    RRU_PER_SEC = 600
    WRU_PER_SEC = 400
    ;
    ```

3. Bind users `usr1` and `usr2` to resource groups `rg1` and `rg2` respectively.

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr1 RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
    ```

> After you complete the preceeding operations, the resource consumption by newly created sessions is controlled by the specified quota. Read requests are limited by the quota of the read RU, and write requests are limited by the quota of the write RU. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of both users will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Meanwhile, the consumption ratio of RU metrics for both users' read and write requests is basically proportional to the specified quota. When system resources are abundant, the resource consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota because it has set `BURSTABLE`.

Author: ```suggestion
After you complete the preceeding operations, the resource consumption by newly created sessions is controlled by the specified quota. Read requests are limited by the read RU quota, and write requests are limited by the write RU quota. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of both users will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Meanwhile, the consumption ratio of RU metrics for both users' read and write requests is basically proportional to the specified quota. When system resources are abundant, the resource consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota because it has set `BURSTABLE`, while `usr2` is not allowed.
```

## Monitoring and charts

TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** panel. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

## Tool Compatibility

The resource control feature is not compatible with data export/import and replication tools including BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC.

## Limitations

Currently, the resource control feature has the following limitations:

* This feature only supports restriction and scheduling of read and write requests initiated by frontend clients. It does not support restriction and scheduling of background tasks such as `DDL` and `Auto Analyze`. 

> * Resource control will incur additional scheduling overhead. Therefore, there might be a slight performance degradation when this feature is enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
* Resource control incurs additional scheduling overhead. Therefore, there might be a slight performance degradation when this feature is enabled.
```

---
title: Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation
summary: Learn how to use resource management to control and schedule application resource consumption.
---

# Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental and its form and usage may change in subsequent versions.

> Using the resource control feature, as a cluster administrator, you can define resource groups and limit the read and write quotas by resource groups. After you bind users to a resource group, the TiDB layer will perform flow control on the user's read and write requests according to the read and write quotas set by the bound resource group. Meanwile, the TiKV layer will schedule the requests according to the priority of the read and write quota mapping. Through flow control and scheduling, you can achieve resource isolation of your applications and meet the quality of service (QoS) requirements.

Author: ```suggestion
Using the resource control feature, as a cluster administrator, you can define resource groups and limit the read and write quotas by resource groups. After you bind users to a resource group, the TiDB layer will perform flow control on the user's read and write requests according to the read and write quotas set by the bound resource group. Meanwhile, the TiKV layer will schedule the requests according to the priority of the read and write quota mapping. Through flow control and scheduling, you can achieve resource isolation of your applications and meet the quality of service (QoS) requirements.
```

Resource group quotas are expressed as [RU (Resource Unit)](/tidb-RU.md), which is TiDB's unified abstraction of CPU, IO, and other system resources.

The following is an example of how to create a resource group and bind users to it.

1. Create a resource group `rg1` with a quota of 500 RU per second for read requests and 300 RU per second for write requests, and allow applications in this resource group to use excessive resources when system resources are available.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1
    RRU_PER_SEC = 500
    WRU_PER_SEC = 300
    BURSTABLE
    ;
    ```

2. Create a resource group `rg2` with a quota of 600 RU per second for read requests and 400 RU per second for write requests, and do not allow applications in this resource group to use excessive resources even when system resources are available.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2
    RRU_PER_SEC = 600
    WRU_PER_SEC = 400
    ;
    ```

3. Bind users `usr1` and `usr2` to resource groups `rg1` and `rg2` respectively.

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr1 RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
    ```

> After you complete the preceeding operations, the resource consumption by newly created sessions is controlled by the specified quota. Read requests are limited by the read RU quota, and write requests are limited by the write RU quota. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of both users will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Meanwhile, the consumption ratio of RU metrics for both users' read and write requests is basically proportional to the specified quota. When system resources are abundant, the resource consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota because it has set `BURSTABLE`, while `usr2` is not allowed.

Author: ```suggestion
After you complete the preceding operations, the resource consumption by newly created sessions is controlled by the specified quota. Read requests are limited by the read RU quota, and write requests are limited by the write RU quota. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of both users will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Meanwhile, the consumption ratio of RU metrics for both users' read and write requests is basically proportional to the specified quota. When system resources are abundant, the resource consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota because it has set `BURSTABLE`, while `usr2` is not allowed.
```

This feature applies to the following scenarios:

- You can combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into one TiDB cluster. If the load of an individual application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other businesses. When the system load is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, so as to achieve the maximum utilization of resources.
- You can choose to combine all test environments into a single cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications can still get the necessary resources.

In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>

> > This feature does not support [Serverless Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is not available on [Serverless Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta).
```

</CustomContent>

## What is Request Unit (RU)

Request Unit (RU) is TiDB's unified abstraction unit for CPU, IO and other system resources, which currently includes CPU, IOPS and IO bandwidth metrics. The consumption of these three metrics is represented by the RU unit according to a certain ratio.

The following table shows the consumption of TiKV storage layer CPU and IO resources by user requests and the corresponding RU weights.

| Resource       | RU Weight |
|:----------|:------|
| CPU       | 1 RU / Milliseconds |
| Read IO       | 1 RU / MiB |
| Write IO      | 5 RU / MiB |
| Basic overhead of a read request   | 1 RU  |

> | Basic overhead of a write request   | 3 RU  |

Author: We have a note at the very beginning of the doc. See L8~L10

> | Basic overhead of a write request   | 3 RU  |

Reviewer 2: It's an estimated value based on our pricing calculation and also reference to some other vendors.

Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` requests that read `r2` MiB data, and `w1` write requests that write `w2` MiB data, then the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:

c + (r1 + r2) + (3 * w1 + 5 * w2)

## Parameters for resource control

The resource control feature introduces two new global variables.

* TiDB: you can use the system variable [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) to control whether to enable flow control for a resource group.
* TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>

> > The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it. You need to restart the TiKV instance for the modification to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it. You need to restart the TiKV instance for the modification to take effect.
```

    ```

3. Bind users `usr1` and `usr2` to resource groups `rg1` and `rg2` respectively.

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr1 RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
    ```

After you complete the above operations of creating resource groups and binding users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` bound by `rg1` is configured with `BURSTABLE`, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.

If the resource group corresponds to a request with insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

## Monitoring and charts

TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** panel. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

## Tool Compatibility

> The resource control feature is not compatible with data export/import and replication tools including BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC.

Reviewer: This needs more explanation.

- Can I still export data?
- Are the resource groups gone after a backup/restore operation?
- What happens when running two TiDB clusters with TiCDC, do the resource groups and/or statements that create resource groups replicate to the secondary cluster?
- What happens with TiDB to MySQL replication with TiCDC? Does it cause syntax errors on the target?
- Will tools like BR and Dumpling give warnings for when resource groups are enabled?

Reviewer 2: resource group meta information will be ignored by those tools. No impact to normal user data.

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: Are there any limitations when deploying on k8s? Any OS specific limitations? Does this work on AMD64 and ARM64? Does this require certain Linux kernel options to be enabled or modules to be loaded?

Reviewer 2: There is no special os or hardware dependency since the control is fully based on tidb/pd/tikv existing capacities.

</CustomContent>

## What is Request Unit (RU)

Request Unit (RU) is TiDB's unified abstraction unit for CPU, IO and other system resources, which currently includes CPU, IOPS and IO bandwidth metrics. The consumption of these three metrics is represented by the RU unit according to a certain ratio.

The following table shows the consumption of TiKV storage layer CPU and IO resources by user requests and the corresponding RU weights.

| Resource       | RU Weight |
|:----------|:------|
| CPU       | 1 RU / Milliseconds |
| Read IO       | 1 RU / MiB |
| Write IO      | 5 RU / MiB |
| Basic overhead of a read request   | 1 RU  |
| Basic overhead of a write request   | 3 RU  |

Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` requests that read `r2` MiB data, and `w1` write requests that write `w2` MiB data, then the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:

c + (r1 + r2) + (3 * w1 + 5 * w2)

## Parameters for resource control

The resource control feature introduces two new global variables.

> * TiDB: you can use the system variable [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control) to control whether to enable flow control for a resource group.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB: you can use the system variable [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) to control whether to enable flow control for a resource group.
```

The TiDB resource control feature provides two layers of resource management capabilities: the flow control capability at the TiDB layer and the priority scheduling capability at the TiKV layer. The two capabilities are orthogonal and can be enabled separately or simultaneously. See the [Parameters for resource control](#parameters-for-resource-control) for details.

- TiDB flow control: TiDB flow control uses the token bucket algorithm (`RU_TOKENS`). The number of tokens consumed by read and write requests cannot exceed the number of tokens accumulated in the corresponding resource group bucket. If there are not enough tokens in the bucket, and the resource group does not specify the `BURSTABLE` option, the requests to the resource group will wait for the token bucket to backfill the tokens and retry. The retry may fail due to timeout.

> - TiKV scheduling: If [`resource_control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) is enabled, TiKV uses the value of `RU_PER_SEC` of each resource group to map the read and write requests of each resource group to their own priorities. Based on their own priorities, the storage layer uses the priority queue to schedule and process requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiKV scheduling: If [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) is enabled, TiKV uses the value of `RU_PER_SEC` of each resource group to map the read and write requests of each resource group to their own priorities. Based on their own priorities, the storage layer uses the priority queue to schedule and process requests.
```

> - TiKV scheduling: If [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) is enabled, TiKV uses the value of `RU_PER_SEC` of each resource group to map the read and write requests of each resource group to their own priorities. Based on their own priorities, the storage layer uses the priority queue to schedule and process requests.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiKV scheduling: If [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) is enabled, TiKV uses the value of `RU_PER_SEC` of each resource group to map the read and write requests of each resource group to their own priorities. Based on their own priorities, the storage layer uses the priority queue to schedule and process requests.
```

> The introduction of the resource control feature is a milestone for TiDB. It can divide a distributed database cluster into multiple logical units. Even if an individual unit overuses resources, it does not crowd out the resources needed by other units.

Author: 我改下英文吧

> 
> The introduction of the resource control feature is a milestone for TiDB. It can divide a distributed database cluster into multiple logical units. Even if an individual unit overuses resources, it does not crowd out the resources needed by other units.

Author: ```suggestion
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is not available on [Serverless Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta).

</CustomContent>

## Scenarios for resource control

> With this feature, you can:

Author: ```suggestion
The introduction of the resource control feature is a milestone for TiDB. It can divide a distributed database cluster into multiple logical units. Even if an individual unit overuses resources, it does not crowd out the resources needed by other units. 

With this feature, you can:
```

> This feature applies to the following scenarios:
> 
> - You can combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into one TiDB cluster. If the load of an individual application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other businesses. When the system load is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, so as to achieve the maximum utilization of resources.
> - You can choose to combine all test environments into a single cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications can still get the necessary resources.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
    With this feature, you can:

    - Combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into a single TiDB cluster. When the workload of an application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other applications. When the system workload is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, so as to achieve the maximum utilization of resources.
    - Choose to combine all test environments into a single TiDB cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications can always get the necessary resources.

    In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

```

In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

## What is Request Unit (RU)

Request Unit (RU) is TiDB's unified abstraction unit for system resources, which currently includes CPU, IOPS and IO bandwidth metrics. The consumption of these three metrics is represented by RU according to a certain ratio.

The following table shows the consumption of TiKV storage layer CPU and IO resources by user requests and the corresponding RU weights.

| Resource        | RU Weight        |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| CPU             | 1 RU/millisecond |

> | Read IO         | 1/64 RU/KB       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Read IO         | (1/64) RU/KB       |
```

| Write IO        | 1 RU/KB          |
| Basic overhead of a read request   | 0.25 RU  |
| Basic overhead of a write request  | 1.5 RU   |

Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` requests that read `r2` KB data, `w1` write requests that write `w2` KB data, and the number of non-witness TiKV nodes in the cluster is `n`, then the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:

`c`\* 1/3 + (`r1` \* 0.25 + `r2` \* 1/64) + (1.5 \* `w1` + `w2` \* 1 \* `n`)

## Parameters for resource control

The resource control feature introduces two new global variables.

* TiDB: you can use the system variable [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) to control whether to enable flow control for a resource group.

> * TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiKV: you can use the [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.
```

> * TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.
```

> * TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>

> > The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it for TiDB cloud dedicated tier.
```

> > The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
> The parameter `resource-control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters.
```

</CustomContent>

The results of the combinations of these two parameters are shown in the following table.

> | `resource_control.enabled`  | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= ON   | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= OFF  |
> |:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
> | `resource_control.enabled`= true  |  Flow control and scheduling (recommended) | Invalid combination      |  
> | `resource_control.enabled`= false |  Only flow control                         | The feature is disabled. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `resource-control.enabled`  | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= ON   | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= OFF  |
|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| `resource-control.enabled`= true  |  Flow control and scheduling (recommended) | Invalid combination      |  
| `resource-control.enabled`= false |  Only flow control                         | The feature is disabled. |
```

## How to use resource control

To create, modify, or delete a resource group, you need to have the `SUPER` or `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` privilege.

> You can create a resource group in the cluster by using [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), and then bind the users to a specific resource group by using [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/ sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can create a resource group in the cluster by using [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), and then bind users to a specific resource group by using [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/ sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md).
```

For an existing resource group, you can modify the read and write quota of the resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md). The quota changes to the resource group take effect immediately.

You can delete a resource group by using [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md).

> **Note:**
>
> - When you bind a user to a resource group by using `CREATE USER` or `ALTER USER`, it will not take effect for the user's existing sessions, but only for the user's new sessions.

> > - If a user is not bound to a resource group or is bound to a `default` resource group, the user's requests are not subject to TiDB's flow control restrictions. The `default` resource group is currently not visible to the user and cannot be created or modified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - If a user is not bound to a resource group or is bound to a `default` resource group, the user's requests are not subject to the flow control restrictions of TiDB. The `default` resource group is currently not visible to the user and cannot be created or modified.
```

### Step 1. Enable the resource control feature

Enable the resource control feature.

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_resource_control = 'ON';
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

> In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) to `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set the TiKV [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) parameter to `true`.
```

> In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to `true`.
```

> In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource_control) to `true`.

Author: ```suggestion
In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) to `true`.
```

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#resource_control) to `true`. The parameter `resource-control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In TiDB Cloud, the value of the TiKV `resource-control.enabled` parameter is  `false` by default and does not support dynamic modification. If you need to enable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

Reviewer 3: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#resource_control won't work because stable is for v6.5. We can skip providing the link for TiDB Cloud because Cloud users cannot modify it and need to seek support if necessary.

Reviewer 4: I think we can keep it because we might forget to add it back in the 7.x version.

Author: What's your opinion? @songrijie

Reviewer 5: At this moment, we'd better be conservative to public Cloud customers. I would like say it's not yet certified in TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 5: /cc @easonn7

> In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#resource_control) to `true`. The parameter `resource_control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#resource_control) to `true`. The parameter `resource-control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.
```

> In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource_control.enabled`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#resource_control) to `true`. The parameter `resource-control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.

Author: ```suggestion
In TiKV, set the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#resource_control) to `true`. The parameter `resource-control.enabled` is disabled by default. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it.
```

</CustomContent>

### Step 2. Create a resource group, and then bind users to it

The following is an example of how to create a resource group and bind users to it.

1. Create a resource group `rg1`. The RU backfill rate is 500 RUs per second and allows applications in this resource group to overrun resources.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1 RU_PER_SEC = 500 BURSTABLE;
    ```

> 2. Create a resource group `rg2`. The RU backfill rate is 500 RUs per second and does not allow applications in this resource group to overrun resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create a resource group `rg2`. The RU backfill rate is 600 RUs per second and does not allow applications in this resource group to overrun resources.
```

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2 RU_PER_SEC = 600;
    ```

3. Bind users `usr1` and `usr2` to resource groups `rg1` and `rg2` respectively.

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr1 RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
    ```

> After you complete the above operations of creating resource groups and binding users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` bound by `rg1` is configured with `BURSTABLE`, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you complete the above operations of creating resource groups and binding users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota. If the system workload is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` is bound by `rg1` with `BURSTABLE` configured, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.
```

If the resource group corresponds to a request with insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

> ## Monitoring and charts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Monitoring metrics and charts
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>

> > This section is not applicable to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> This section is only applicable to on-premises TiDB. Currently, TiDB Cloud does not provide resource control metrics.
```

Reviewer 3: update it similar to the sentence in https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/time-to-live#monitoring-metrics-and-charts

</CustomContent>

> TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** panel. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** dashboard. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).
```

> 

Reviewer 3: The following sentence in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/12655/files is not here.

TiKV 中也记录了来自于不同资源组的请求 QPS，详见 [TiKV监控指标详解](/grafana-tikv-dashboard.md###gRPC)

Author: OK added

> 

Author: ```suggestion

TiKV also records the request QPS from different resource groups. For more details, see [TiKV Monitoring Metrics Detail](/grafana-tikv-dashboard.md#gRPC).

```

## Tool Compatibility

> The resource control feature is still in its experimental stage and does not impact the regular usage of data import, export, and other replication tools. BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC do not currently support resource control related DDL processing, and their resource consumption is not limited by resource control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The resource control feature is still in its experimental stage and does not impact the regular usage of data import, export, and other replication tools. BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC do not currently support processing DDL operations related to resource control, and their resource consumption is not limited by resource control.
```

## Limitations

Currently, the resource control feature has the following limitations:

> * This feature only supports restriction and scheduling of read and write requests initiated by frontend clients. It does not support restriction and scheduling of background tasks such as `DDL` and `Auto Analyze`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This feature only supports flow control and scheduling of read and write requests initiated by foreground clients. It does not support flow control and scheduling of background tasks such as DDL operations and auto analyze. 
```

---
title: Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation
summary: Learn how to use the resource control feature to control and schedule application resources.
---

# Use Resource Control to Achieve Resource Isolation

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental and its form and usage may change in subsequent versions.

> Using the resource control feature, as a cluster administrator, you can define resource groups and limit the read and write quotas of resource groups. After you bind users to a resource group, the TiDB layer will perform flow control on the user's read and write requests according to the read and write quotas set by the bound resource group. Meanwhile, the TiKV layer will schedule the requests according to the priority of the read and write quota mapping. Through flow control and scheduling, you can achieve resource isolation of your applications and meet the quality of service (QoS) requirements.

Author: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, you can use the resource control feature to set read and write quotas for resource groups, and bind users to those groups. This allows the TiDB layer to control the flow of user read and write requests based on the quotas set for the resource group, while the TiKV layer schedules the requests based on the priority of the read and write quota mapping. By doing this, you can ensure resource isolation for your applications and meet quality of service (QoS) requirements.
```

The TiDB resource control feature provides two layers of resource management capabilities: the flow control capability at the TiDB layer and the priority scheduling capability at the TiKV layer. The two capabilities are orthogonal and can be enabled separately or simultaneously. See the [Parameters for resource control](#parameters-for-resource-control) for details.

> - TiDB flow control: TiDB flow control uses the token bucket algorithm (`RU_TOKENS`). The number of tokens consumed by read and write requests cannot exceed the number of tokens accumulated in the corresponding resource group bucket. If there are not enough tokens in the bucket, and the resource group does not specify the `BURSTABLE` option, the requests to the resource group will wait for the token bucket to backfill the tokens and retry. The retry may fail due to timeout.

Author: To be updated.

> - TiDB flow control: TiDB flow control uses the token bucket algorithm (`RU_TOKENS`). The number of tokens consumed by read and write requests cannot exceed the number of tokens accumulated in the corresponding resource group bucket. If there are not enough tokens in the bucket, and the resource group does not specify the `BURSTABLE` option, the requests to the resource group will wait for the token bucket to backfill the tokens and retry. The retry may fail due to timeout.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB flow control:  TiDB flow control uses the [token bucket algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Token_bucket). If there are not enough tokens in the bucket, and the resource group does not specify the `BURSTABLE` option, the requests to the resource group will wait for the token bucket to backfill the tokens and retry. The retry may fail due to timeout.
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is not available on [Serverless Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta).

</CustomContent>

## Scenarios for resource control

With this feature, you can:

- Combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into a single TiDB cluster. When the workload of an application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other applications. When the system workload is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, so as to achieve the maximum utilization of resources.
- Choose to combine all test environments into a single TiDB cluster, or group the batch tasks that consume more resources into a single resource group. It can improve hardware utilization and reduce operating costs while ensuring that critical applications can always get the necessary resources.

In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

> In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

Reviewer 4: duplicated line.

> 
> In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## What is Request Unit (RU)

Request Unit (RU) is TiDB's unified abstraction unit for system resources, which currently includes CPU, IOPS and IO bandwidth metrics. The consumption of these three metrics is represented by RU according to a certain ratio.

The following table shows the consumption of TiKV storage layer CPU and IO resources by user requests and the corresponding RU weights.

| Resource        | RU Weight        |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| CPU             | (1/3) RU/millisecond |
| Read IO         | (1/64) RU/KB       |
| Write IO        | 1 RU/KB          |
| Basic overhead of a read request   | 0.25 RU  |
| Basic overhead of a write request  | 1.5 RU   |

Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` requests that read `r2` KB data, and `w1` write requests that write `w2` KB data, then the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:

> `c`/3 + (`r1` \* 0.25 + `r2`/64) + (1.5 * `w1` + `w2`)

Author: ```suggestion
`c`\* 1/3 + (`r1` \* 0.25 + `r2` \* 1/64) + (1.5 \* `w1` + `w2` \* 1 \* `n`)
```

> Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` requests that read `r2` KB data, `w1` write requests that write `w2` KB data, and the number of non-witness TiKV nodes in the cluster is `n` , then the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` requests that read `r2` KB data, `w1` write requests that write `w2` KB data, and the number of non-witness TiKV nodes in the cluster is `n`, then the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:
```

The resource control feature introduces two new global variables.

* TiDB: you can use the system variable [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) to control whether to enable flow control for a resource group.
* TiKV: you can use the parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> The parameter `resource-control.enabled` is disabled by default. It does not support dynamic modification. You need to contact the [PingCAP support team](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to enable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters.

</CustomContent>

The results of the combinations of these two parameters are shown in the following table.

| `resource-control.enabled`  | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= ON   | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= OFF  |
|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| `resource-control.enabled`= true  |  Flow control and scheduling (recommended) | Invalid combination      |  

> | `resource-control.enabled`= false |  Only flow control                         | The feature is disabled. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `resource-control.enabled`= false |  Only flow control (not recommended)                 | The feature is disabled. |
```

    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
    ```

After you complete the above operations of creating resource groups and binding users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota. If the system load is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` bound by `rg1` is configured with `BURSTABLE`, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.

If the resource group corresponds to a request with insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

## Monitoring and charts

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This section is not applicable to TiDB Cloud.

</CustomContent>

TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** panel. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

## Tool Compatibility

> The resource control feature is not compatible with data export/import and replication tools including BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC. These tools simply ignore the metadata information of the resource groups in the cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
The resource control feature is still in its experimental stage and does not impact the regular usage of data import, export, and other replication tools. BR, TiDB Lightning, and TiCDC do not currently support resource control related DDL processing, and their resource consumption is not limited by resource control.
```

The following table shows the consumption of TiKV storage layer CPU and IO resources by user requests and the corresponding RU weights.

| Resource        | RU Weight        |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| CPU             | 1/3 RU per millisecond |
| Read IO         | 1/64 RU per KB       |
| Write IO        | 1 RU/KB          |
| Basic overhead of a read request   | 0.25 RU  |
| Basic overhead of a write request  | 1.5 RU   |

Based on the above table, assuming that the TiKV time consumed by a resource group is `c` milliseconds, `r1` times of requests read `r2` KB data, `w1` times of write requests write `w2` KB data, and the number of non-witness TiKV nodes in the cluster is `n`. Then, the formula for the total RUs consumed by the resource group is as follows:

`c`\* 1/3 + (`r1` \* 0.25 + `r2` \* 1/64) + (1.5 \* `w1` + `w2` \* 1 \* `n`)

## Parameters for resource control

The resource control feature introduces two new global variables.

* TiDB: you can use the [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb-tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660) system variable to control whether to enable flow control for resource groups.

> * TiKV: you can use the [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiKV: you can use the [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource groups.
```

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>

> > In TiDB Cloud, the value of the `resource-control.enabled` parameter is  `false` by default and does not support dynamic modification. If you need to enable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> In TiDB Cloud, the value of the `resource-control.enabled` parameter is `false` by default and does not support dynamic modification. If you need to enable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

</CustomContent>

The results of the combinations of these two parameters are shown in the following table.

| `resource-control.enabled`  | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= ON   | `tidb_enable_resource_control`= OFF  |
|:----------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| `resource-control.enabled`= true  |  Flow control and scheduling (recommended) | Invalid combination      |  
| `resource-control.enabled`= false |  Only flow control (not recommended)                 | The feature is disabled. |

> For more information about the resource control mechanism, see [RFC: Global Resource Control in TiDB](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sV5EVv8Cdpc6aBCDihc2akpE0iuantPf/edit?n= RFC_Global_Resource_Control_in_TiDB.docx#heading=h.sjp9cmjfszlu).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about the resource control mechanism and parameters, see [RFC: Global Resource Control in TiDB](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sV5EVv8Cdpc6aBCDihc2akpE0iuantPf/edit?n= RFC_Global_Resource_Control_in_TiDB.docx#heading=h.sjp9cmjfszlu).
```

## How to use resource control

To create, modify, or delete a resource group, you need to have the `SUPER` or `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` privilege.

You can create a resource group in the cluster by using [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md), and then bind users to a specific resource group by using [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/ sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md).

> For an existing resource group, you can modify the read and write quota of the resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md). The quota changes to the resource group take effect immediately.

Author: ```suggestion
For an existing resource group, you can modify the RU value of the resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md). The changes to the resource group take effect immediately.
```

You can delete a resource group by using [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md).

> **Note:**
>
> - When you bind a user to a resource group by using `CREATE USER` or `ALTER USER`, it will not take effect for the user's existing sessions, but only for the user's new sessions.

> > - If a user is not bound to a resource group or is bound to a `default` resource group, the user's requests are not subject to the flow control restrictions of TiDB. The `default` resource group is currently not visible to the user and cannot be created or modified.

Author: ```suggestion
> - If a user is not bound to a resource group or is bound to a `default` resource group, the user's requests are not subject to the flow control restrictions of TiDB. The `default` resource group is currently not visible to the user and cannot be created or modified. You cannot view it with `SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP` or `SELECT * FROM information_schema.resource_groups`. But you can view it through the `mysql.user` table.
```

1. Create a resource group `rg1`. The RU backfill rate is 500 RUs per second and allows applications in this resource group to overrun resources.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1 RU_PER_SEC = 500 BURSTABLE;
    ```

2. Create a resource group `rg2`. The RU backfill rate is 600 RUs per second and does not allow applications in this resource group to overrun resources.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2 RU_PER_SEC = 600;
    ```

3. Bind users `usr1` and `usr2` to resource groups `rg1` and `rg2` respectively.

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr1 RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
    ```

    ```sql
    ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
    ```

After you complete the above operations of creating resource groups and binding users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota. If the system workload is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` is bound by `rg1` with `BURSTABLE` configured, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.

> If the resource group corresponds to a request with insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the resource group corresponds to a request with an insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.
```

> If the resource group corresponds to a request with an insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

Author: ```suggestion
If there are too many requests resulting in insufficient resources for the resource group, the client's requests will wait. If the wait time is too long, the requests will report an error.
```

## Monitoring metrics and charts

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This section is only applicable to on-premises TiDB. Currently, TiDB Cloud does not provide resource control metrics.

</CustomContent>

TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** dashboard. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

TiKV also records the request QPS from different resource groups. For more details, see [TiKV Monitoring Metrics Detail](/grafana-tikv-dashboard.md#gRPC).

> ## Tool Compatibility

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Tool compatibility
```

- TiDB flow control: TiDB flow control uses the [token bucket algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Token_bucket). If there are not enough tokens in a bucket, and the resource group does not specify the `BURSTABLE` option, the requests to the resource group will wait for the token bucket to backfill the tokens and retry. The retry might fail due to timeout.
- TiKV scheduling: if [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) is enabled, TiKV uses the value of `RU_PER_SEC` of each resource group to determine the priority of the read and write requests for each resource group. Based on the priorities, the storage layer uses the priority queue to schedule and process requests.

## Scenarios for resource control

The introduction of the resource control feature is a milestone for TiDB. It can divide a distributed database cluster into multiple logical units. Even if an individual unit overuses resources, it does not crowd out the resources needed by other units. 

> 
> The introduction of the resource control feature is a milestone for TiDB. It can divide a distributed database cluster into multiple logical units. Even if an individual unit overuses resources, it does not crowd out the resources needed by other units. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

If the resource group corresponds to a request with insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

## Monitoring metrics and charts

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This section is only applicable to on-premises TiDB. Currently, TiDB Cloud does not provide resource control metrics.

</CustomContent>

TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** dashboard. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

TiKV also records the request QPS from different resource groups. For more details, see [TiKV Monitoring Metrics Detail](/grafana-tikv-dashboard.md#gRPC).

> TiKV also records the request QPS from different resource groups. For more details, see [TiKV Monitoring Metrics Detail](/grafana-tikv-dashboard.md#gRPC).

Reviewer 3: This line is duplicated with line 157.

    ```

After you complete the above operations of creating resource groups and binding users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota. If the system workload is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` is bound by `rg1` with `BURSTABLE` configured, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.

If the resource group corresponds to a request with insufficient quota, the client's request will wait. If the wait time is too long, the request will report an error.

## Monitoring metrics and charts

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> **Note:**
>
> This section is only applicable to on-premises TiDB. Currently, TiDB Cloud does not provide resource control metrics.

</CustomContent>

TiDB regularly collects runtime information about resource control and provides visual charts of the metrics in Grafana's **TiDB** > **Resource Control** dashboard. The metrics are detailed in the **Resource Control** section of [TiDB Important Monitoring Metrics](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md).

> 
> TiKV also records the request QPS from different resource groups. For more details, see [TiKV Monitoring Metrics Detail](/grafana-tikv-dashboard.md#gRPC).

Author: ```suggestion
```
